# Logistic regression 

Logistic Regression, also known as Logit Regression or Logit Model, is a mathematical model used in statistics to estimate (guess) the probability of an event occurring having been given some previous data. Logistic Regression works with binary data, where either the event happens (1) or the event does not happen (0). So given some feature x it tries to find out whether some event y happens or not. So y can either be 0 or 1. In the case where the event happens, y is given the value 1. If the event does not happen, then y is given the value of 0. For example, if y represents whether a sports team wins a match, then y will be 1 if they win the match or y will be 0 if they do not. This is known as Binomial Logistic Regression.

Logistic regression is an alternative method to use other than the simpler Linear Regression. Linear regression tries to predict the data by finding a linear – straight line – equation to model or predict future data points. Logistic regression does not look at the relationship between the two variables as a straight line. Instead, Logistic regression uses the natural logarithm function to find the relationship between the variables and uses test data to find the coefficients. The function can then predict the future results using these coefficients in the logistic equation.

Logistic regression uses the concept of odds ratios to calculate the probability. This is defined as the ratio of the odds of an event happening to its not happening. For example, the probability of a sports team to win a certain match might be 0.75. The probability for that team to lose would be 1 – 0.75 = 0.25. The odds for that team winning would be 0.75/0.25 = 3. This can be said as the odds of the team winning are 3 to 1